---
title: "Creating Serial Numbers (C#)"
project: ""
interface: ""
member: ""
kind: "topic"
source: "epdmapi/csharpserno.htm"
---

# Creating Serial Numbers (C#)

This
sample shows how to generate serial numbers for file data cards using
an add-in written in Visual C#.

NOTES:

- Because SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional cannot force a reload of
  add-ins if they are written in .NET, all client machines must be restarted to ensure that the latest version of the add-in is used.
- SOLIDWORKS
  PDM Professional recommends that serial numbers be generated using the built-in format strings or lists.
  They provide better performance than serial numbers generated by add-ins
  or serial numbers from files. Write an add-in to generate the serial
  number only if built-in format strings or lists are insufficient.
- The
  differences between serial number generation and other types of hooks are:

  - Hook you register in
    your IEdmAddIn5::GetAddInInfo method.
  - Contents of your IEdmAddIn5::OnCmd method.

1. FollowCreating Menu Commands (C#) to
  create a basic add-in.
2. Register a hook to
  notifyyour add-in when a serial
  number needs to be generated. Implement IEdmAddIn5::GetAddInInfo as follows:

  ```vb
   public void GetAddInInfo(ref EdmAddInInfo poInfo, IEdmVault5 poVault, IEdmCmdMgr5 poCmdMgr)
   {
          //Return information about this add-in to the Administrate Add-ins dialog
          poInfo.mbsAddInName = "My serial number generator";
          poInfo.mbsCompany = "The name of my company";
          poInfo.mbsDescription = "Implements serial numbers";
          poInfo.mlAddInVersion = 1;
          poInfo.mlRequiredVersionMajor = 5;
          poInfo.mlRequiredVersionMinor = 2;

          //Notify that a serial number needs to be generated
          poCmdMgr.AddHook(EdmCmdType.EdmCmd_SerialNo);
   }
  ```
3. Implement IEdmAddIn5::OnCmd as follows:
4. Click Build > Build
  Solution to build the add-in.
5. I

  nstall
  the add-in through the SOLIDWORKS PDM Professional
  Administration tool:

  1. Open

    the SOLIDWORKS
    PDM Professional Administration tool.
  2. Expand the vault where
    you want to install this add-in and log in as Admin.
  3. Right-click

    Add-ins

    and click

    New
    Add-in

    .
  4. B

    rowse to

    project_path

    \

    project_name\project_name

    \bin\Debug

    ,
    click

    project_name

    .dll

    and

    EPDM.Interop.epdm.dll

    .
  5. Click

    Open

    .
  6. Click

    OK

    .
  7. Click

    OK

    .
6. Right-click the Serial Numbers node in the
  tree and clickNew Serial
  Number.
7. Create a new serial number
  in the Name field and selectSerial number from add-inin the Type dropdown.

  The name of your add-in is displayed in Name of add-in .
8. After ensuring that your add-in is selected, clickOK.

  Now you can connect the add-in serial number to controls in
  your file data cards.
9. Click Cards > File Cards , double-click Text Card ,and click theTitlecontrol.
10. In
  the Default value group box on the Edit-box properties panel,clickSerial number and
  select the serial number that you created in step 7.
11. Save the card and exit the Card Editor.
12. Create a new text file
  by right-clicking in a File Explorer vault view and
  clickingNew >
  Text File . The file data card displays a serial number in Title of the newly added
  file.
