---
title: "Face::EnumEdges"
project: ""
interface: ""
member: ""
kind: "topic"
source: "obsoleteapi/Face/Face__EnumEdges.htm"
---

# Face::EnumEdges

This
method is obsolete and has been superseded by[Face2::EnumEdges](sldworksAPI.chm::/Face2/Face2__EnumEdges.htm).

Description

This method enumerates the edges in a face.

Syntax (OLE Automation)

Not available.

Syntax (COM)

status = Face->EnumEdges ( &retval
)

(Table)=========================================================

| Output: | (LPENUMEDGES) retval | Pointer to the enumerated list of edges |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Return: | (HRESULT) status | S_OK if successful |

Remarks

If you try to align the edges with their corresponding trim curves,
then call EnumEdges immediately following a call to[GetTrimCurves](Face__GetTrimCurves2.htm).
This causes the order of the trim curves to align with the order of the
edges. For Dispatch implementations, refer to[GetEdges](Face__GetEdges.htm).

To elaborate, any call
to GetTrimCurves stores a temporary buffer that contains the edges for
this face. If this temporary buffer exists, then GetEdges or EnumEdges
access the buffer. This is beneficial if you try to align the trim curves
of the face with their corresponding edges. If you call GetEdges or EnumEdges
immediately following GetTrimCurves, then the order of the trim curves
aligns with the order of the edges. However, if you process all the trimcurves
and then process all the edges, your first call to EnumEdges uses the
temporary buffer of edges generated in your last call to GetTrimCurves.
Since your last call to GetTrimCurves and your current call to EnumEdges
are probably made from different faces, you will see a mismatch of data.
This mismatch of data may been seen when[GetEdgeCount](Face__GetEdgeCount.htm)does not match the number of enumerated edges or it may be seen when the
edge data does not match the face being examined. Therefore, calls to
GetEdges or EnumEdges should be made in the same loop and immediately
following your call to GetTrimCurves. The temporary buffer of edges is
destroyed after each call to GetEdges or EnumEdges.

If you are using GetTrimCurves, also be aware that the number of trim
curves on a face may vary from the number of edges on the face. If you
call EnumEdges immediately after a call to GetTrimCurves, then you will
be getting a list of edges generated by GetTrimCurves. Because this list
of generated edges may vary from the list of edges that would typically
be returned from this face, you should not use Face::GetEdgeCount to determine
the length of the enumerated edge list. Instead, you can determine the
size of the enumerated edge list by using one of the return values from
GetTrimCurves. The GetTrimCurves method returns the number of trim (SP)
curves in the first array position. This is the value which should be
used to loop through your enumerated list of edges.

For more information on aligning the edges with the trim curves, refer
to the documentation of GetTrimCurves.

Metadata type="DesignerControl" startspan
<object classid="clsid:A2F1FA63-C1E6-11d2-9140-006DC83B9955"
type="application/x-oleobject"
id=RelatedTopic0>
<param name="_Version" value="65536" >
<param name="_ExtentX" value="1323" >
<param name="_ExtentY" value="556" >
<param name="_StockProps" value="13" >
<param name="ForeColor" value="0" >
<param name="BackColor" value="12632256" >
<param name="UseButton" value="0" >
<param name="ControlLabel" value="See Also" >
<param name="UseIcon" value="0" >
<param name="Items" value="Face_Object$$**$$ZGetEdge$$**$$ZGetEnumEdges$$**$$" >
<param name="Image" value="" >
<param name="FontInfo" value="MS Sans Serif,8,0,," >
<param name="_CURRENTFILEPATH" value="D:\sjesse\sw2001Plus\Face\Face__EnumEdges.htm" >
<param name="_ID" value="RelatedTopic0" >
<param name="DialogDisplay" value="0" >
<param name="Frame" value="" >
<param name="Window" value="" >
<param name="ChmFile" value="" >
<param name="DisableJump" value="0" >
</object>Metadata type="DesignerControl" endspan
