---
title: "Microsoft Visual Studio Tools for Applications (VSTA)"
project: ""
interface: ""
member: ""
kind: "topic"
source: "sldworksapiprogguide/GettingStarted/VSTA_2015.htm"
---

# Microsoft Visual Studio Tools for Applications (VSTA)

- [Prerequisite Software](#Prereq)
- [Installing VSTA](#AboutVista)
- [Creating a .NET macro in SOLIDWORKS](#CreatingMacro2018)
- [Editing a .NET macro created in SOLIDWORKS](#EditingMacro2018)
- [Upgrading a VSTA 1.0 .NET macro created
  in SOLIDWORKS 2017 or earlier](#EditingMacro2017)
- [Running a VSTA 1.0 .NET DLL created in
  SOLIDWORKS 2017 or earlier](#RunningOldDLLs)

#### Prerequisite Software

- Microsoft Visual Studio 201

  9 (Community, Professional, Premium or Enterprise version) must be installed
  in order to record, edit, or debug VB.NET and C# macros in SOLIDWORKS 2023
  or later.

  Notes:

  - If you install a
    version of Microsoft Visual Studio that is later than 2015, you must ensure that a runtime
    version of Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 is also installed.
  - If you do not
    install Microsoft Visual Studio before you install SOLIDWORKS, you
    will not be able to record, edit, or debug VSTA 3.0 macros. You will only be
    able to run VSTA 3.0 DLLs.
  - If you install
    Microsoft Visual Studio after you install SOLIDWORKS 2018, you must also
    install the

    [VSTA runtime](https://www.microsoft.com/en-US/download/details.aspx?id=49031)

    to record, edit, or debug VSTA 3.0 macros.

#### Installing VSTA

As of SOLIDWORKS 2021, VSTA (3.0) 2015
is activated by default on
all Windows versions. VSTA 1.0 .NET macros created in previous releases are converted
when they are opened in SOLIDWORKS 2021.

After installing SOLIDWORKS:

- VSTA 1.0 .NET macros created in releases previous to
  SOLIDWORKS 2021 are automatically converted to VSTA 2015. After conversion, an instance
  of Visual Studio opens the
  converted .NET macro for editing. See

  [Prerequisite Software](#Prereq)

  .
- Tools > Macro > Edit > Open > File name

  dropdown contains:

  - SW VBA Macros (*.swp)
  - SW VSTA VB Macro (*.vbproj)
  - SW VSTA C# Macro (*.csproj)
  - SW Macros

    (*.

    swp

    ,
    *

    .swb

    , *.

    csproj

    , *.

    vbproj

    )
- Tools > Macro > New > Save As > Save as type

  dropdown contains:

  - SW VBA Macros (*.swp)
  - SW VSTA VB Macro (*.vbproj)
  - SW VSTA C# Macro (*.csproj)
- If VSTA was not nstalled with SOLIDWORKS,
  then all of the SOLIDWORKS macro dialog dropdowns contain only:

**SW VBA Macros (*.swp)**

#### Creating a .NET macro in SOLIDWORKS

1. Read

  [Installing VSTA](#AboutVista)

  .
2. In SOLIDWORKS, select

  Tools > Macro > New

  .
3. In the Save As dialog, navigate to the directory where to
  save the project.
4. Specify

  File name.
5. In

  Save as type

  select SW VSTA VB Macro (

  *.vbproj

  )
  or SW VSTA C# Macro (

  *.csproj

  ).
6. Click

  Save

  .
7. A new instance of Visual Studio opens. See

  [Prerequisite Software](#Prereq)

  .
8. Solution Explorer shows:

  - The solution,

    VstaProjects

    .
  - The project name.
  - My Project
  - References

    (sldworks and swconst interop assemblies added from

    install_dir

    \api\redist\

    )
  - SolidWorksMacro.vb

    or

    SolidWorksMacro.cs

    .
9. The SolidWorksMacro class is assigned a GUID attribute. If
  you change this attribute, the macro will not run.
10. When you compile the macro, the project's configuration
  (Debug or Release) and output directory are not read. Only a release DLL is saved in

  project_folder

  /bin

  .

#### Editing a .NET macro created in SOLIDWORKS

1. Read

  [Installing VSTA](#AboutVista)

  .
2. In SOLIDWORKS, select

  Tools > Macro > Edit

  .
3. In the Open dialog, navigate to the project
  folder.
4. Select

  SW Macros

  in the project type dropdown.
5. Select the

  *.vbproj

  or

  *.csproj

  project file.
6. Click

  Open

  .
7. A new instance of Visual Studio opens the project you
  selected. See

  [Prerequisite Software](#Prereq)

  .

#### Upgrading a VSTA 1.0 .NET macro created in SOLIDWORKS 2017 or earlier

1. Read

  [Installing VSTA](#AboutVista)

  .
2. In order to successfully upgrade a VSTA 1.0 .NET macro, the class
  name, "SolidWorksMacro", and the method name, "Execute", must be
  present.
  If you renamed those entities in your VSTA 1.0 macro, the macro cannot be
  upgraded to VSTA 2015.
3. In SOLIDWORKS, select

  Tools > Macro > Edit

  .
4. In the Open dialog, navigate to the SwMacro directory of the project
  folder created in a previous release.
5. Select

  SW Macros

  in the project type dropdown.
6. Select the

  *.vbproj

  or

  *.csproj

  project file.
7. Click

  Open

  .
8. A new project is created in

  project_folder

  /SwMacro/upgradedmacro

  .
9. A new instance of Visual Studio opens the upgraded
  project. See

  [Prerequisite Software](#Prereq)

  .
10. When you compile the macro, the project's configuration
  (Debug or Release) and output directory are not read. Only a release DLL is saved in

  project_folder

  /SwMacro/upgradedmacro/bin.
11. The original macro is not modified or moved.

#### Running a VSTA 1.0 .NET DLL created in SOLIDWORKS 2017 or earlier

Read[Installing VSTA](#AboutVista). VSTA 2015 is active by
default, and VSTA 1.0 macros are automatically converted to VSTA 2015:

1. Follow the instructions in

  [Upgrading a VSTA 1.0 .NET macro created in SOLIDWORKS 2017 or earlier](#EditingMacro2017)

  .
2. Select

  Tools > Macro > Run

  .
3. Select

  SW VSTA Macros (*.dll)

  in the file type dropdown.
4. Navigate to

  project_folder

  \SwMacro\upgradedmacro\bin

  .
5. Select the DLL.
6. Click

  Open

  to run the macro.
